DOCSP-51349: Upgrade guide (#127)
mongodb/docs-kotlin-sync: source/reference/upgrade.txt

  :ref:`Compatibility <kotlin-sync-compatibility>` page.
- Address any breaking changes between the current version of the driver
  your application is using and your planned upgrade version in the
  :ref:`Breaking Changes <kotlin-sync-breaking-changes>` section. To learn
  more about {+mdb-server+} release compatibility changes, see the
  :ref:`<kotlin-sync-server-release-changes>` section.

.. tip::

   To minimize the number of changes your application might require when
   you upgrade driver versions in the future, use the
   :ref:`{+stable-api+}. <kotlin-sync-stable-api>`

.. _kotlin-sync-breaking-changes:

Breaking Changes
----------------

A breaking change is a modification in a convention or behavior in
a specific version of the driver that might prevent your application from
working properly if not addressed before upgrading.

The breaking changes in this section are categorized by the driver version that
introduced them. When upgrading driver versions, address all the breaking
changes between the current and upgrade versions. For example, if you
are upgrading the driver from v5.0 to v5.5, address all breaking changes from

> the version after v5.0 including any listed for v5.5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the versions after v5.0 including any listed for v5.5.
```

.. _kotlin-sync-breaking-changes-v5.5:

Version 5.5 Breaking Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- The driver is no longer compatible with {+mdb-server+} version
  4.0. To learn more about this change, see the
  :ref:`kotlin-sync-server-release-change-v5.5` section.

.. _kotlin-sync-breaking-changes-v5.2:

Version 5.2 Breaking Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This driver version introduces the following breaking changes:

- Drops support for {+mdb-server+} v3.6. To learn more about this change,
  see the :ref:`<kotlin-sync-server-release-change-v5.2>` section.

- Revises the `mongodb-crypt <https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.mongodb/mongodb-crypt>`__
  dependency versioning to match the versioning for the JVM drivers. Future versions of

>   ``mongodb-crypt`` will be released alongside the driver and will share the same version number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ``mongodb-crypt`` are released alongside the driver and share the same version number.
```

  You must upgrade your ``mongodb-crypt`` dependency to v5.2.0 when upgrading your driver for

>   this release.

Author: Note to reviewer: additional breaking change from the Kotlin what's new page

.. _kotlin-sync-breaking-changes-v5.1:

Version 5.1 Breaking Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This driver version introduces the following breaking changes:

> - When using the ``MONGODB-OIDC`` authentication mechanism, you must

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When using the ``MONGODB-OIDC`` authentication mechanism, you must
```
what happens if you do?

Author: The only info about the consequences I can find is in the DRIVERS [ticket](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/DRIVERS-2915), which says the driver "will parse connection strings ambiguously." I think it just would result in unexpected behavior due to how it's parsed? not sure if that's worth mentioning here, but I added a suggestion to pass the value in the MongoClientSettings instead

Reviewer: ok, that works

> - When using the ``MONGODB-OIDC`` authentication mechanism, you must

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When using the ``MONGODB-OIDC`` authentication mechanism, you cannot
```

  not include comma characters in the ``authMechanismProperties`` connection

>   string value.

Author: Note to reviewer: additional breaking change from the Kotlin what's new page

  `Stream
  <https://mongodb.github.io/mongo-java-driver/4.11/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/connection/Stream.html>`__
  interface:

  - ``MongoClientSettings.Builder.streamFactoryFactory()`` method.
    Use the ``MongoClientSettings.Builder.transportSettings()`` method instead.
  - ``MongoClientSettings.getStreamFactoryFactory()`` method.
    Use the ``MongoClientSettings.getTransportSettings()`` method instead.
  - ``NettyStreamFactoryFactory`` class.
    Instead, call the ``TransportSettings.nettyBuilder()`` method to create
    a ``NettyTransportSettings`` object. Then, call the ``MongoClientSettings.Builder.transportSettings()``
    method to apply the settings.
  - ``NettyStreamFactory`` class.
  - ``AsynchronousSocketChannelStreamFactory`` class.
  - ``AsynchronousSocketChannelStreamFactoryFactory`` class.
  - ``BufferProvider`` interface.
  - ``SocketStreamFactory`` class.
  - ``Stream`` interface.
  - ``StreamFactory`` interface.
  - ``StreamFactoryFactory`` interface.
  - ``TlsChannelStreamFactoryFactory`` class.

.. tip::

   To view breaking changes for earlier driver versions, see the
   :github:`Release Notes <mongodb/mongo-java-driver/releases>` in the 

>    ``mongo-java-driver`` GitHub repository.

Reviewer: Should this be changed to the link for release notes in the mongo kotlin driver repo instead?

Author: The Kotlin driver folder is in the mongo-java-driver repo, i don't think there are specific Kotlin release notes (unless I'm missing something)

Reviewer: i see, thanks for checking in on that!

.. _kotlin-sync-server-release-changes:

Server Release Compatibility Changes
------------------------------------

A server release compatibility change is a modification
to the {+driver-short+} that discontinues support for a set of
{+mdb-server+} versions.

The driver discontinues support for a {+mdb-server+} version after it reaches
end-of-life (EOL).

To learn more about the MongoDB support for EOL products,
see the `Legacy Support Policy <https://www.mongodb.com/support-policy/legacy>`__.

.. _kotlin-sync-server-8.1-incompatibility:

Server Version 8.1 Support Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You cannot use a 3.x version of the {+driver-short+} to connect to a

> MongoDB deployment running {+mdb-server+} v8.1. Starting in {+mdb-server+} v8.1,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MongoDB deployment running {+mdb-server+} v8.1 or later. Starting in {+mdb-server+} v8.1,
```
